-   **Building an add-on or integration with JIRA using the [Atlassian Connect framework](../authentication-for-add-ons/)?** Atlassian Connect is the best solution, if you are developing for JIRA Cloud. However, this page does not apply to Atlassian Connect. Authentication for Atlassian Connect add-ons/integrations is done using JSON Web Tokens (JWT), and is built into the Atlassian Connect libraries. For details, see [Authentication for add-ons].
-   **Considering [OAuth](../jira-rest-api-oauth-authentication/)?** We recommend that you use OAuth over basic authentication, unless you are building tools like personal scripts or bots. With basic authentication, the username and password are sent repeatedly with requests and cached on the web browser, which is much less secure than OAuth (even if credentials are sent via SSL/TLS for basic HTTP). OAuth requires more work to implement, but it uses a token-based workflow which is much more secure .**
-   **Considering [cookie-based authentication](../jira-rest-api-cookie-based-authentication/)?** We recommend that you do not use cookie-based authentication in most cases. If you need to implement something quickly and security is not a concern, then you can use basic authentication. In all other cases, OAuth is better than cookie-based authentication. Unlike cookie-based authentication, OAuth tokens are not bound to a single domain and you have more control over how to expire them compared to cookies. OAuth is also immune to XSRF and only slightly more vulnerable to XSS, compared to cookie-based authentication.